README.md, before:

# NutMEG-Implementations
Repository for example or published codes using NutMEG.

These should be designed such that one can clone NutMEG-Implementations and position it in the same directory as their NutMEG clone. All code in NutMEG-Implementations appends the NutMEG directory to sys.path by default, so if you structure your projects differently you'll need to change it accordingly.

Example structure:

    projects/
    |--NutMEG/
    |   |--NutMEG/
    |   `--docs/
    `--NutMEG-Implementations/
        |--Venus/
            `--EVenus.py

Then to run some code:

    cd projects/NutMEG-Implementations/Venus
    python3 EVenus.py

## Implementations Quick Look

Below is a brief overview of each Implementation. Each directory has its own readME file breaking down its contents, please refer to those or the papers below for more information.

### Competition_Example
A guided example for using NutMEG to simulate competition between two fictional organisms: a methanogen and a sulfate reducer. Full guide available in [NutMEG's documentation](https://nutmeg-astrobiology.readthedocs.io).

### Venus
 Code for assessing the energetic availability in Venus' clouds.  Outputs of this were used in the publication: 'Biologically available Chemical Energy in the Temperate but Uninhabitable Venusian Cloud Layer: What do we Want to Know?' Cockell et al. 2021 *Astrobiology* DOI: [10.1089/ast.2020.2280](https://doi.org/10.1089/ast.2020.2280)

### TOM
Code for examining the growth and biosignature behaviour of methanogens.  Outputs of this were used in the publication: Higgins P.M. and Cockell C.S. (2020) 'A bioenergetic model to predict habitability, biomass and biosignatures in extreme conditions and astrobiology' *J. R. Soc. Interface* 17 (171) pp. 20200588 DOI: [10.1098/rsif.2020.0588](https://doi.org/10.1098/rsif.2020.0588)


### Enceladus2021_ParameterSpace
Code for mapping the habitability of the parameter space of Enceladus' ocean. Outputs of this were used in the publication: Higgins P.M.,  Glein C.R., and Cockell C.S. (2021) 'Instantaneous Habitable Windows in the Parameter Space of Enceladus' Ocean' *JGR: Planets* 126 (11) pp. e2021JE006951 DOI: [10.1029/2021JE006951](https://doi.org/10.1029/2021JE006951)

### Thesis
Some useful code to accompany my PhD thesis. Thesis published at the University of Edinburgh: Higgins, P.M. (2022) 'Modelling extraterrestrial habitability, biomass and biosignatures through the bioenergetic lens' *The University of Edinburgh* DOI: [10.7488/era/2078](https://doi.org/10.7488/era/2078 )

Commit message:

Descriptor for biomass + biotic C implementation

README.md, after:

# NutMEG-Implementations
Repository for example or published codes using NutMEG.

These should be designed such that one can clone NutMEG-Implementations and position it in the same directory as their NutMEG clone. All code in NutMEG-Implementations appends the NutMEG directory to sys.path by default, so if you structure your projects differently you'll need to change it accordingly.

Example structure:

    projects/
    |--NutMEG/
    |   |--NutMEG/
    |   `--docs/
    `--NutMEG-Implementations/
        |--Venus/
            `--EVenus.py

Then to run some code:

    cd projects/NutMEG-Implementations/Venus
    python3 EVenus.py

## Implementations Quick Look

Below is a brief overview of each Implementation. Each directory has its own readME file breaking down its contents, please refer to those or the papers below for more information.

### Competition_Example
A guided example for using NutMEG to simulate competition between two fictional organisms: a methanogen and a sulfate reducer. Full guide available in [NutMEG's documentation](https://nutmeg-astrobiology.readthedocs.io).

### Venus
 Code for assessing the energetic availability in Venus' clouds.  Outputs of this were used in the publication: 'Biologically available Chemical Energy in the Temperate but Uninhabitable Venusian Cloud Layer: What do we Want to Know?' Cockell et al. 2021 *Astrobiology* DOI: [10.1089/ast.2020.2280](https://doi.org/10.1089/ast.2020.2280)

### TOM
Code for examining the growth and biosignature behaviour of methanogens.  Outputs of this were used in the publication: Higgins P.M. and Cockell C.S. (2020) 'A bioenergetic model to predict habitability, biomass and biosignatures in extreme conditions and astrobiology' *J. R. Soc. Interface* 17 (171) pp. 20200588 DOI: [10.1098/rsif.2020.0588](https://doi.org/10.1098/rsif.2020.0588)


### Enceladus2021_ParameterSpace
Code for mapping the habitability of the parameter space of Enceladus' ocean. Outputs of this were used in the publication: Higgins P.M.,  Glein C.R., and Cockell C.S. (2021) 'Instantaneous Habitable Windows in the Parameter Space of Enceladus' Ocean' *JGR: Planets* 126 (11) pp. e2021JE006951 DOI: [10.1029/2021JE006951](https://doi.org/10.1029/2021JE006951)

### Enceladus2024_BiomassBiosinatures
Code for analysing the sustainable steady state biomass and turnover of biotic carbon in Enceladus' ocean. 



### Thesis
Some useful code to accompany my PhD thesis. Thesis published at the University of Edinburgh: Higgins, P.M. (2022) 'Modelling extraterrestrial habitability, biomass and biosignatures through the bioenergetic lens' *The University of Edinburgh* DOI: [10.7488/era/2078](https://doi.org/10.7488/era/2078 )
